In this clip we're going to talk about staining
wood with gel stain. And we've talked a little
bit already about oil, oil based stains and
water based stains. Now gel stain is an oil
based stain, but it differs from your standard
oil stain in the sense that it's, it's thicker,
it's more pigment than binder. It's, it's,
I'm not going to get too much into the technical
reasons of why it does what it does, but suffice
to say, in general terms, gel stain doesn't
penetrate as deeply into the wood as a regular
oil based stain does. But you should experiment
with it and see how it works for you. Let's
take a look at how gel stain works with various
woods. First things first, you're going to
want to stir your gel stain very thoroughly.
Because it will separate even, even more extremely
than a, than a regular oil stain will. So
give it a good stirring up. And let's have
a looksey as to how it applies to different
species of wood. Here we're going to apply
some gel stain to a piece of Pine, again using
the circular motion to rub it across the grain.
Now as you can see the gel stain is much thicker
than the regular stain, and just clings to
the surface. So you definitely want to make
sure you wipe off as much of that excess as
you can. Now some folks find that the gel
stain sort of similarly to the water based
stain does not create as much blotching with
soft woods such as Pine. As you can see that's
a pretty, pretty even consistent stain, and
I did not condition this wood.